# TimeCredit

With her May 2023 Harvard Business School (HBS) graduation looming, Ndonga Sagnia was less than halfway to meeting the fundraising goal for her artificial intelligence (AI) accounting startup. She sat down to meet with her cofounder, Kevin Shabahang, to decide whether to continue dedicating nearly all of her time to raising money or to shift her focus toward developing the company.

Her venture, TimeCredit, aimed to use new AI Large Language Models (LLMs) to streamline the arduous process of creating accounting memos, addressing a pain point Sagnia knew firsthand from her years at Ernst & Young (EY). Unfortunately, she had picked a difficult time to raise capital. Soaring inflation, high interest rates, the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank, and a widespread tech recession had led to a pullback in venture capital (VC) activity and non-committal investors. There was palpable excitement over applications of new AI technology which helped attract investor interest, but most had not yet landed on an investment strategy in the space. Meanwhile, competition was growing by the day.

Sagnia had secured an early win by landing a reputable launch partner for TimeCredit’s prototype as a first customer and source of data to build out their product, but the longer fundraising delayed development of a minimum viable product (MVP), the higher the risk they would lose this early traction. Both their launch partner and Sagnia’s technical cofounder, Shabahang, were growing impatient with the lack of progress. Sagnia felt pressure to end the round of fundraising less than halfway to their initial goal of raising $1.5 million, but this also risked leaving them short of the computing and engineering resources they needed to hit their next milestones without running out of money. With Sagnia’s graduation looming, Sagnia and Shabahang’s budding cofounder relationship faced a difficult early test.

## Ndonga Sagnia

Ndonga Sagnia was born in The Gambia but moved all over Africa throughout her childhood, spending time in Uganda, Tanzania, Botswana, Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana, Cameroon, and Kenya. She spoke Wolof in her earliest years but needed to learn new languages as her family moved around the continent (English in Uganda, French in Côte d'Ivoire). “It was a real struggle for me, as someone who was extremely talkative, and not being able to communicate with people around me.” While the moves were taxing, Sagnia appreciated that her father’s job as a banker was pulling her family out of poverty. “My mom’s mom couldn’t read, and my dad was raised by his grandmother who was a maid for the British families in Gambia. He remembered being hungry because his family literally did not have enough food. I saw what having a good job and committing to it could do for people,” she reflected.

Sagnia’s childhood exposed her to a rich set of environments and experiences that expanded her entrepreneurial mindset. This passion for entrepreneurship was present early in life. “I can think of so many business ideas I had when I was a kid. I wrote to Oprah once when I was nine because I had this brilliant idea about a magnetic pencil case. It wasn’t that brilliant, but at the time I thought it was great.”

Sagnia moved to the United States for college at Rider University, where she pursued a major in accounting. Upon graduating in 2014, Sagnia joined one of the top professional service firms in the US, Ernst & Young (EY). The decision was a strategic move for her career, serving also as a pathway to secure a work visa: “You get good enough grades, you work enough hours, they will sponsor your visa.” Entrepreneurship would have to wait.

Sagnia steadily moved up the ranks at EY from Staff Tax Accountant to Senior Tax Accountant to ‘Tax Manager, completing her master’s degree in taxation from Fairleigh Dickinson University in 2017. After seven years at EY and with permanent residency status on the horizon, Sagnia’s professional life seemed settled. But her interest in the work was waning. “I enjoy leading teams, but federal corporate tax had become less interesting to me,” Sagnia recalled. One particular task was becoming a slog:

“A tax review memo is a summary of EY’s procedures on a client's financial statements as it regards to taxation, and how our conclusions differ from the client’s during an audit. That's what ended up being my specialty. For me, it was just painful. I couldn't delegate much of it down to staff because documentation is quite complex. It also comes at the end of the audit, so it’s high pressure. I pulled many all-nighters to get these memos done on time.”

Tired of the corporate accounting grind, Sagnia decided to explore a career pivot by pursuing an MBA at HBS. “I kept asking myself, ‘what have I always enjoyed and how can some of my skills transfer?’ I wanted to be an entrepreneur.”

Sagnia started at HBS in 2021 and used her time to explore a variety of paths, but she was not yet committed to abandoning the security of life at EY. She also considered moving to management consulting or venture capital to build her management experience. The turning point came during a conversation at the Career and Professional Development center, when a mentor asked, “Do you want to be an investor, an operator, or an advisor?” Despite her early interest in the investing world, she was confident she wanted to be an operator. “That's why I was interested in VC in the first place: to be an operator. After those conversations, I realized I don’t need to do this half-step of becoming an investor. It’s also a very difficult half-step. Getting into VC from another industry is so hard, and to spend all that time trying to go into an industry only to build experience for something else, I just didn’t see it as a good path for me.”

Interactions with entrepreneurs at the Harvard Innovation Lab prompted her to seek opportunities in Series B companies that aligned with her interests in technology and real estate. Sagnia recalled one investor's counsel, “Working at a startup will show you that you're able to work in an environment that has a little bit less structure, because working at a Big Four huge accounting firm, anything you can dream of already exists. They can just throw money at anything. It will be great for you to experience the other side of that where you can’t throw money at everything, you have to figure it out.” She landed a summer internship at the early-stage property technology startup, Kasa Living Inc., to test the waters.

## Finding an Idea

Sagnia returned to HBS from her summer internship energized and inspired to use the second year of her MBA to launch her own enterprise. Months before the launch of OpenAI's breakthrough product, ChatGPT, she had identified the potential of LLMs to automate previously impossible tasks (see Appendix A for a brief description of the launch of ChatGPT and the potential of LLMs). The first opportunity she identified was to use LLMs to identify and mitigate the harm of unregulated social media commentary. Sagnia was acutely aware of the vitriolic environment that could emerge online, particularly for women and people of color, and she had a clear vision for a potential solution. Platforms like YouTube and Twitch had difficulty monitoring and addressing these problems in real- time and automating this moderation process seemed promising. Sagnia interviewed creators who echoed that this was a pain point for them. Yet, her relationship with social media was tenuous: “I'm not on social media. I have an Instagram account, but I don’t have it on my phone. I may not be the person to really build this product.” She decided to shift her ambitions in a different direction.

Reflecting on her strengths and experience, Sagnia zeroed in on the bane of her accounting work: the dreaded tax review memo. “I don’t put myself out there on the internet. But I hated writing tax review memos so much that if I had not had to do it, I might never have left EY. Using AI technology to write blog posts and tweets is cool. But for me, the coolest use case would have been to improve my life at EY.” This realization gave birth to TimeCredit, a platform designed to alleviate the burdensome process of creating accounting memos with the assistance of AI.

Sagnia started TimeCredit with the ambition to revolutionize the labor-intensive accounting industry. By automating the worst parts of the job, she envisioned giving accountants the ability to reclaim their time, focus on strategic tasks, and reduce burnout (See Exhibit 1 for the company pitch deck). While building the product would be difficult and require deep accounting expertise, she was optimistic that her vision was technically feasible. Sagnia knew the road ahead would be strewn with technical challenges, and that success would require building trust with risk-averse professionals in an industry resistant to change, but the potential of TimeCredit to transform productivity and job satisfaction was clear.

## Finding a Cofounder

Recognizing the complexity of developing an AI-driven platform like TimeCredit, Sagnia knew she would need a dedicated technical cofounder or a Chief Technical Officer (CTO) with a deep understanding of AI. “This isn’t the type of company that you build by just hiring contract labor. You need someone to strategize with you who also understands the technology. So I started looking for a cofounder.” Moreover, Sagnia knew a technical cofounder would provide credibility to TimeCredit in the eyes of investors.

In November 2022, Sagnia started her search for a cofounder in familiar corridors— Harvard's joint MS/MBA program, where the blend of management and technology expertise seemed like a good fit for her needs. Despite her efforts, no suitable candidate emerged. Undeterred, Sagnia cast a wider net, crafting a presence on the “Y Combinator (YC) Cofounder Matching” platform. The responses trickled in, but she had trouble finding someone who resonated with her vision for TimeCredit.

She continued searching down a less conventional path—reaching out to thought leaders in AI on LinkedIn, engaging in discussions, and messaging those whose insights sparked a connection. “I would approach anyone who talked about AI on LinkedIn and who had a large following, and any time a post on Generative AI specifically would go viral, I would just read the comments. If someone said anything that was interesting, I would check their profile. And if they were technical, I would DM them and say ‘Hi, I am starting this company.” This too felt like yelling into the void until she connected with Kevin Shabahang in late December. “A lot of people ignored me, but I did get some responses and my cofounder was one of them,” Sagnia recalled.

Shabahang was a Cognitive Science PhD candidate from the University of Melbourne based in Toronto. Similar to Sagnia, Shabahang had faced the challenge of assimilating to a new environment in adolescence. He and his family immigrated from Iran to Canada when he was ten years old, motivated by their misalignment with the regime in power at the time. He reflected, “It was a challenge fitting in and integrating. It was important to me to be a good Canadian. I was into punk rock and metal music. The most difficult part was probably my parents coming to terms with my identity as a Canadian.” After graduating high school in Toronto, Shabahang attended college at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, where he majored in psychology.

As an undergraduate, Shabahang became interested in modeling the internal processes of the brain. “I started learning about neural networks. Not many people knew about them at the time, even though they have been around since at least the 1950s.” Fascinated by the modeling work and research process, he added an additional bachelor’s degree in computation and decided to pursue a PhD in Cognitive Psychology in 2018 under Professor Simon Dennis, whose research lab at the University of Melbourne studied large language models of human memory. As a researcher in the lab, Shabahang published several papers working on the general problem of specifying computationally tractable models of human information processing in academic journals. He enjoyed the research but saw career opportunities for academics drying up: “Once the COVID pandemic hit, there were major budget cuts to academia and the outlook for early career researchers looked quite grim. At the same time, there were a lot of administrative tasks in academia that detracted from my main goal which was to keep working on these models. What drives me is that I want to know how we can represent the meaning of words quantitatively and that drive then got translated to a more applied situation when I got Ndonga’s message.” He had moved back to Toronto during the pandemic and was living there when they connected in December 2022.

To assess their compatibility as cofounders, Sagnia and Shabahang began by sharing experiences and values rather than diving into the transactional specifics of business. Sagnia first tested Shabahang to see whether their values were aligned, asking, “How do you feel about diversity? How would you want to approach certain difficult things in the future of the business? How will we respectfully disagree?” Sagnia believed the risk of intellectual theft was overshadowed by the need for mutual trust, and her conversations with Shabahang were layered with this understanding. A trip to Toronto solidified their partnership, and their enthusiasm and shared dedication easily carried over into after- work dinners. They continued working together through the winter to assess whether Sagnia’s vision was technically feasible and to begin laying out a business plan. In April 2023, they moved to formalize their working partnership.

To officially bring Shabahang on board, they needed to have the difficult conversation about equity allocation. Sagnia initially envisioned an equitable 50-50 split, prioritizing mutual trust over control. Yet, voices around her— investors, advisors, and even mentors at HBS — urged her to retain the majority stake. “A lot of investors bought into me as a founder. It’s easy to get investors excited about an HBS founder, but they were less sure about my cofounder because he was just leaving academia. He has a PhD and is extremely technical, but he has not, for example, worked at Google. Investors would say, ‘Kevin is okay for now but we'd love to invest in you and think about a future where you get someone from Google.’ But I was not interested in that. Overall, there was a lot of concern about a 50-50 equity split.”

The standard advice skewed toward holding 60-90% to account for her initial work and the company vision. For Sagnia, however, Shabahang’s trust was paramount, and it was not something she was willing to sacrifice—even at the behest of potential investors. Shabahang, for his part, proposed a 50-50 equity split to codify their equal partnership.

They landed on a 51-49 equity structure, with Sagnia maintaining a slight majority. This arrangement struck the delicate balance between signaling that Sagnia was the ultimate decision maker and honoring the trust that had become the foundation of their partnership. With equity allocation settled, Sagnia and Shabahang were ready to think seriously about fundraising and excited to dive into building TimeCredit. Sagnia reflected on the decision, “It’s not as big of a split as I think most investors had wanted, but I'm not building a company for investors. And at some point, I had to decide whether I would be willing to lose an investor to keep Kevin. But I'm more committed to my cofounder in this business than I am to any investor.”

## Building TimeCredit

Using LLMs to generate accounting memos posed three unique challenges. First and foremost was the issue of privacy. Accounting documents contain highly sensitive data, and any breach of privacy could spell disaster for a company. This risk had major consequences for the product development cycle. It required the development of LLMs with robust cybersecurity and data privacy protocols to ensure that confidential information remained secure at all times. But this also meant that training data was difficult to acquire. Incumbent accounting firms, who suffer severe reputational damage in the event of a cybersecurity breach, were unlikely to be willing to share their data for training purposes until TimeCredit could demonstrate bulletproof safety and sufficient utility to make the data-sharing risk worthwhile.

The second challenge, which drew on the domain expertise that initially motivated Sagnia to work on this problem, stemmed from the specialized language used in accounting. Unlike general language applications, accounting terminology is rich with domain-specific phrases that LLMs needed to understand and use correctly. For someone who is not an accountant, the learning curve to grasp this domain expertise was steep, and the LLM needed to reflect this high level of specialized knowledge. “Domain expertise was a challenge, I had none of it. Not being an accountant, a lot of it was new to me, a lot of new phrases and terminology. But my reaction was not, ‘It’s so dull and boring’ but more like “Oh, great! Now I get the chance to learn a bit more about this,” Shabahang noted. Communicating Sagnia’s expertise and incorporating it into the technology stack would be critical for their partnership to succeed.

Lastly, the information included in accounting memos must be one hundred percent accurate. Most LLM applications can tolerate some level of inaccuracy, but in accounting, any mistake or error can have serious consequences. Exacerbating this challenge is the fact that LLMs generate plausible- sounding text, which could be misleading and include convincing but incorrect “hallucinations.” To combat this issue, Sagnia and Shabahang would need to introduce extra layers of verification. Given the way LLMs work, imposing these constraints was not a trivial technical problem. Shabahang thought two frontier methods might have some promise, especially if used in combination. First, Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) provides the LLM with context from specific, pre-loaded accounting guides. The challenge with this solution was that if the context was incorrect or the LLM applied it in the wrong situation, the LLM might still produce errors, potentially leading to more hallucinations. A second way to discipline the accuracy was employing knowledge graphs, which impose a logical structure on the LLM's outputs. Unlike the LLM’s typical probabilistic approach— where it predicts the likelihood of certain answers — knowledge graphs maintain binary logic, essential for accounting’s logical consistency. However, integrating knowledge graphs was a complex task; they were often brittle, overly specific, and challenging to implement effectively.

While Sagnia and Shabahang were convinced that implementation was feasible with Sagnia’s domain knowledge and Shabahang’s technical ability, the problem was not trivial. As Sagnia laid out their strategy, Shabahang highlighted one key challenge in forecasting their plans: “I knew ultimately it was doable, but I was very hesitant about giving us an explicit timeline because you have to try one approach. If that doesn’t work, you have to try another thing. So I don't know if I'm going to have to try one possible solution, or if I'm going to have to try 20 solutions before we get it to work. One of the challenges for me was to come up with more concrete timelines for our deliverables.”

TimeCredit’s value proposition was simple: automate the immensely time-consuming and labor- intensive elements of audit and accounting work. These elements could not be easily outsourced or delegated to junior staff—tax review memos are important and precise documents, requiring a deep knowledge-base and expertise to compile even the first draft. If their technology could accelerate the production of these documents, they could tap into an estimated $20 billion total addressable market (See Exhibit 1). Convincing firms to try the product would be a challenge. To gain traction, TimeCredit would need to offer a suite of compelling, effective products worth the required time investment to integrate them into firms’ existing workflows, which did not have much margin for error or time to lose during busy seasons. Sagnia interviewed accountants in her network to decide which products to prioritize, balancing the feasibility of technical implementation with the utility to the customer.

After formalizing the partnership and preparing to fundraise in April, Sagnia laid out the product roadmap. Ten different memo types would form the basis of their product bundle. While not the memo that accountants reported would be the most useful, the Revenue Recognition memo was their initial focus because they would be able to develop it quicker than the others. This strategic choice would allow for a more compelling pitch to potential partners and help them refine their production process — integrating RAGs and knowledge graphs to enhance the LLMs—in a way they hoped would scale to the other nine memos. Sagnia and Shabahang were optimistic they could deploy this first product by September 2023 but acknowledged the technical risk involved in reaching that milestone.

Before they could launch any products, they would need to obtain Service Organization Control 2 (SOC 2) compliance. SOC 2 is a cybersecurity compliance framework developed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) that helps organizations demonstrate the effectiveness of their information security programs. While the framework is voluntary, certification would be expected by many of their clients. SOC 2 is based on five criteria: security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality, and privacy. They would need to pass an audit by an independent auditor who is accredited by AICPA. Given the messy trial-and-error process of developing their products, they would need to decide how to balance moving quickly and maintaining compliance with SOC 2. Approval covers a six to twelve-month timeframe, which also meant their continued development of new products would have to meet these standards continuously as they moved forward.

They planned to launch a software-as-a-service subscription model, charging companies a fixed fee tiered to company size ($250 per employee), an implementation fee to integrate their product into their existing systems, and an annual service fee. At scale, they expected their largest costs to be hosting, computing, and talent. Their roadmap set goals of beta testing with a Top 20 Accounting firm by the end of 2023 and signing up a 300-person accounting firm by Q1 2024. See Exhibit 1 for their go-to- market strategy and milestones.

To achieve any of these goals, they needed to resolve a Catch-22 common to these types of businesses. To build products companies would be willing to buy, they would need data to train their models. To acquire training data, they needed to sell those products to companies. Without access to existing accounting memos—the more, the better—they would have a difficult time refining their models to improve their accuracy. “Our goal with the product is to get the user 70% of the way there. We wanted to get to revenue recognition by July, and then we thought we could replicate the technical pipeline faster,” Sagnia said.

While they were laying out their business plan, the world was waking up to the potential of LLMs to transform the white-collar workforce. A number of other firms began raising money to compete in the space (see Exhibit 2 for fundraising by companies working on AI). If these companies integrated with their target customers first, it would become more difficult to solve the data Catch-22. Some companies already announced intentions to claim the territory. For example, Truewind had gone through Y Combinator and was in the process of raising a $3 million seed round to build their “AI-powered bookkeeping and finance software” which was initially targeted at managing accounting for startups. Other companies were tackling general purpose document generation, such as Jasper, who raised a $125 million Series A funding round at a $1.5 billion valuation in October 2022. Sagnia and Shabahang were confident that their combination of skills was uniquely well-suited to the problem, but they did not have the luxury of time. There was also the question of whether incumbent firms would try to develop these tools themselves. Forward-looking firms were likely to see the disruptive innovation potential of LLMs and start building their own solutions with the benefits of their vast resources and existing data. Given the rising hype cycle around AI, Sagnia also needed to decide whether to raise more money to move faster or whether their current plans were ambitious enough.

## Early Stage Fundraising

TimeCredit was at a juncture where its vision needed to be underpinned with capital. Neither Sagnia nor Shabahang had deep pockets, and Sagnia had seeded the venture with a few thousand dollars of savings. To meet their goals, they would need significant computing power and engineering support, neither of which came cheap. Sagnia also knew her time at HBS was nearing an end, which would close a window of opportunity to meet investors as a student and raise capital to fund salaries for herself and Shabahang.

The cofounders crafted a rough financial model (see Exhibit 3), outlining a runway for the next 12 to 18 months. Sagnia forecasted $1 million of revenue by the third quarter of 2024 if they hit their milestones. She also outlined some of their expenses, “Kevin needed a stronger computer and we wanted to hire someone focused on the front-end while Kevin trained the back-end models and software. We also needed to hire UI designers, probably as contract labor.” They determined that an injection of $1.2 to $1.5 million would suffice to sustain their operations and facilitate staff expansion, covering a front-end engineer, computing resources for Shabahang, and a development operations lead. Sagnia’s network reinforced that this was a reasonable target, with peers suggesting that a $1.5 to $2 million pre-seed round on Simple Agreements for Future Equity (SAFEs) with valuation caps between $8 to $10 million was within reach for a startup of their nature and stage. Bolstered by the momentum gained by growing investor interest in AI applications amid the furor following OpenAI's release of ChatGPT, Sagnia started feeling more confident in her ability to raise the financing they needed.

Sagnia had avoided approaching investors before they were ready, but a pitch at the HBS Demo Day in late 2022 was met with nods and notes of interest from investors. At that point, the project was still very early-stage and serious investment discussions felt premature. In the following month, Sagnia engaged with potential investors, an exercise that gradually revealed a trend: many were intrigued by new applications of AI but had not yet been sold on the investment potential. Sagnia recalled,

“There was a lot of hype around AI, but I also think there was a lot of hype around talking to you and understanding what your thesis is and understanding your application. It was not, ‘I'm ready to invest. It was more like, ‘I want to talk to people who are immersed in the space and really understand how they're applying this technology.’ had a lot of people say, ‘We're waiting to see how this shakes out. We don’t want to deploy. We want to wait and see who people are betting on and then come in later.” I'm like, ‘Well, I wish you said that to me two or three conversations ago!’ I wanted money. I didn’t want advice. I was so tired of getting advice.”

With funding failing to materialize from initial meetings with investors by February 2023, Sagnia refocused her efforts on TimeCredit's development and secured a launch partner, Calabrese Consulting, a 60-person New York-based financial accounting and advisory service firm, providing newfound validation (see Exhibit 4 for the Letter of Intent). But this too added urgency to fundraising efforts. “That's when we seriously started fundraising because we had a launch partner —an accounting firm that wanted to work with us as we developed the product~and we realized that we actually needed to start incurring some expenses.” Shabahang, new to the start-up world from academia, was also getting antsy: “We would be working all day for a couple of months and my parents would ask, ‘are you going to get paid eventually?’ And I said, ‘It’s coming, it’s coming.”

With graduation approaching, Sagnia ramped up her fundraising efforts. She sought out introductions to investors from other startup founders at HBS and classmates who were scouts or interned for investment firms. She reached out to people she met through HBS events like demo days for field courses. Investors who were not investing would sometimes connect her to other investors. For instance, Kelly Shaw at Vertigo Ventures, whom Sagnia met at a demo day, introduced Sagnia to five investors. Altogether, Sagnia spoke to 35 different investors, dedicating 25 hours a week to pitching or preparing to pitch while attending classes full-time and developing the product. Sagnia explained, “And it’s not just talking to them once. The first meetings were just me and I did not send the pitch deck in advance. If people insisted, I would send a one-pager, but I didn’t want them making decisions before meeting me. So the first meeting is more of a conversation. If they were interested, then they would ask for the deck and a second call and would usually pull someone else in.”

Even as they refined the pitch and it became muscle memory, their progress and newfound launch partner were still not enough to break through to investors. Investors were happy to meet to hear about Sagnia’s vision and progress, but the kind of funding offers her classmates had recently secured with relative ease appeared to have dried up. Sagnia was not alone in her difficulty navigating this technology market downturn. Pre-seed and seed investment activity was quickly tailing off the peaks in 2021 and 2022 (see Exhibit 5). Even though the aggregate numbers suggested AI technology was not hit by the same slump as other sectors for seed and Series A Rounds (see Exhibit 2), Sagnia experienced difficulty convincing investors to bet on a first-time founder with an accounting background. In difficult times, venture capital investors have historically retreated to founder archetypes that are squarely in their comfort zone. As had been the case in the past, funding was falling faster for woman- and minority-led businesses (see Exhibit 6). With graduation just on the horizon and AI competition growing by the day, TimeCredit was running out of time.

## Finding Investors

Sagnia had primarily focused on pitching venture capital investors. “I figured that at HBS, if you're thinking about leveraging a resource that is finite, it is the fact that there are a lot of VCs hanging around on campus. They're coming to events; they’re coming to your classes.” But in her efforts to raise a pre-seed round, she had pitched anyone who was interested, including a number of angel investors she met through her “Founder's Journey” course. Sagnia strategized her investor meetings based on their background, “I was constantly doing due diligence on the investors. I would in particular look up whether the person was technical or not, and if they were, I would want my cofounder to be on the call. If they weren't, I would want to handle the call myself.”

In a surprise turn, Daniel Klass, an angel investor who had initially passed on the opportunity, circled back to Sagnia with an offer in late April. His offer was not the standard SAFE Sagnia had expected to raise but an offer of $250,000 for common equity with none of the preferences that only come with preferred shares at a valuation of $3 million. He also promised to bring three other investors, Mark Diker and Sanjil Shah of Alignvest Ventures and Anthony Lacavera from AAL Portfolio Corp., along with him. The offer reflected Klass’ comfortability in putting himself on the same terms as the founder. The offer promised a lifeline for the business, but Sagnia wondered both whether it would be enough and whether its unconventional terms might deter other early-stage investors. Some of Sagnia’s professors and mentors echoed this concern and warmed the terms would scare off or weaken her bargaining position with future investors. She was also unsure of where this would leave her for follow-on fundraising. Sagnia recalled Klass’ offer, “He wanted the investment to be simple and said there was little chance he would follow on because he does not typically invest at this stage.”

Getting Diker on board also required some back-and-forth conversations as he pushed Sagnia to think carefully about her business plan and cofounder. Sagnia recalled, “During the diligence process, at some point he had asked so many detailed questions about the revenue model that I said, ‘I cannot in good conscience take your money because I can’t answer these questions.’ Beyond the revenue details, he pushed me on Kevin's background and had offered to connect me with an established AI firm. This was particularly difficult for me because of how hard it had been to find a CTO. He ended up following up and saying, “No, I get it. It’s early. Let’s have one more conversation.’ We had another conversation. Then he decided to invest.” Klass, Diker, Shah, and Lacavera collectively committed $375,000.

Even as she finally secured some checks, Sagnia felt pressure from her launch partner and her increasingly antsy cofounder to turn her attention toward building. The LOI laid out an aggressive timeline of production with the piloting phase ending in August 2023, just four months away. At this point, her partner would decide whether to begin paying for the product or to end the relationship. Feeling the shift from a seller's to a buyer's market, Sagnia was inclined to accept the offer despite her advisors’ objections. “If we had enough money to start moving, I thought that we could get to milestones that would make other people more comfortable to invest in us, especially in this climate.”

Sagnia returned to the investors she had pitched throughout the process with the angel's offer in hand, hoping once again to drum up the $1.5 million they needed to build on the envisioned timeframe. She hoped to use Klass’ offer, to invest in common stock at a $3 million valuation, to get closer to the SAFE term sheets with $7 to $8 million valuation caps she had targeted when she initiated fundraising.

Sagnia reached out to the investors who had shown any prior interest with Klass’ offer in hand. Molly Fowler at Dorm Room Fund, whom she met through a classmate at HBS and stayed in touch with throughout her journey, expressed some interest, along with a few additional angel investors. Sagnia noted, “People say this all the time, raising money is like dating. As soon as one person is interested, other people are interested too. I think having the commitment from the initial angel was helpful, and then the Dorm Room Fund became interested, and then we were able to get a few more checks.” Sagnia raised $40,000 from Dorm Room Fund. She secured another $50,000 from Leslie Feinzaig at Graham & Walker Venture Fund, a mentor to Sagnia who she met through the Harvard Innovation Lab, and another $25,000 from Madrona Venture Group, who piggybacked on the same diligence. She also raised two more small checks of $15,000 and $10,000 from other angels.

Unfortunately, none of the investors were willing to invest on SAFEs with the $8 million valuation cap Sagnia targeted, instead anchoring on $3 million as an appropriate post-money valuation cap based on Klass’ initial offer. Sagnia accepted the offers, even though the valuation cap was much lower than she had in mind when she started the fundraising process. Sagnia still needed to resolve the investment offer from Klass. Selling common rather than preferred shares would preserve some of her control of the company, but it also held the potential to delay the process with more legal paperwork and risk alienating the other investors in the future. Sagnia opted for simplicity and offered Klass the same terms of the Dorm Room Fund SAFE, who agreed to join the other investors on the SAFE.

## Time to Stop Fundraising?

Sagnia capitalized on this momentum by reconnecting with The Graduate Syndicate—an investment syndicate of HBS professors who invest in recent graduates — led by one of her mentors and former professors whom she had been in touch with throughout the process. She managed to secure another $100,000 investment, this time on a SAFE with a $4 million post-money valuation cap. While TimeCredit was finally getting traction fundraising on improved terms, they had raised only $615,000 from nine different investors (see Exhibit 7 for a summary), none of whom were obviously committed to larger follow-on rounds if that became necessary. If they turned to building now, they would have drastically less time to meet their milestones at their planned burn rate and would likely have to raise before hitting their revenue targets. If they wanted to meet those milestones on an accelerated timeline, they would need to hire more engineers and spend more on computing, increasing their burn rate and further shortening their timeline. Some additional capital would go a long way toward alleviating this crunch and extending the runway.

Meanwhile, the clock was ticking on the pilot program with their launch partner, and Sagnia felt increasingly absent in the product development process as Shabahang worked largely on his own. Sagnia was aware of the issue and felt pressure to turn away from fundraising, “You just lose so much time pitching when you could be working on your company. We had signed our launch partnership with a public accounting firm and made zero progress on the relationship because 50% of the company (me), all I did was pitch.” They risked losing their only traction and staining their reputation if they did not deliver, while making tangible progress and developing a viable product could validate the business model and attract more investors down the line.

Sagnia’s advisors cautioned that fundraising is a marathon, not a sprint, and it is normal for the process to span several months as momentum and interest build. Stopping early could leave them short of the runway they needed to hit their key milestones, leaving them with an urgent need for cash and a worse bargaining position in a few months’ time.

Sagnia and Shabahang revisited their financial models and product timeline. Should Sagnia pivot away from financing and turn her attention fully to building the product? Could they hire the development operations lead and engineers they needed to execute their vision with the current amount of funding? How were they going to deliver for their launch partner and when would they need to raise their next round? Their mutual trust was put to the test as quickly as it was built.
